export const metadata = {
    title: "I Wasn't Prepared to Work", 
    author: "Robert Smith", 
    dateAccessed: "11-23-2020", 
    url: "http://web.archive.org/web/20140711171559/http://symbo1ics.com/blog/?p=1803",
}

<link
  rel="stylesheet"
  href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.11.0/dist/katex.min.css"
  integrity="sha384-BdGj8xC2eZkQaxoQ8nSLefg4AV4/AwB3Fj+8SUSo7pnKP6Eoy18liIKTPn9oBYNG"
  crossOrigin="anonymous"
/>


Before I started working, I lived in my half-basement bedroom of my father's 
house. In there, I was equipped with a few large laser printers, a wall 
covered in dry-erase boards, a few bookshelves, a computer, and a bed. I was 
perhaps fortunate that between high school and the time I moved out, I wasn't 
demanded of much: maybe to keep my room clean and to help out around the house 
occasionally. As a result of living a cushy life with relatively few pressues, 
I was allowed to explore and learn things as I pleased. My bedroom was my own 
intellectual incubator, my own study, and my own library. 

During high school and beyond, I was pretty smart. At least, I think so now in 
hindsight. I learned to program in C and C++, Haskell and Standard ML, Scheme 
and Common Lisp, and so on. In each of those languages, I'd written substantial
things. In fact, I wrote the most substantial code in C and C++: arbitrary 
precision arithmetic libaries, interpreters, and compilers were my favorite. I 
had these grand plans for big software projects, and often I'd actually follow 
through. (Except for Doron, which is monumentally difficult.)

More importantly though, I had a voracious appetite for mathematics. I never 
achieved expertise in any area of mathematics, but I thought I knew enough to 
begin writing books about particular subjects. In particular, I started writing 
a book on computer algebra, since the knowledge in the field is so divvied up 
and I sought unification. 

I recall spending hours rummaging through the theorems of commutative algebra 
and field theory in order to write more elegant proofs for my book. I remember 
spending a streak of 12 hours doing dry algebraic manipulations and clever 
summation computations by hand in order to both usefully construct and prove the 
following identity I discovered (worked for all positive integers $m$) which 
came out of a particular integral from physics and probability theory: 

*Omitted equation.*

I was very adept at algebra and calculus. To a mathematician, such adeptness is 
probably a boring skill, but it was a skill necessary to do effective 
experimental mathematics. (To elaborate, experimental mathematics is a lot about 
discovery and gut feeling. Being able to do algebraic manipulations, on-the-fly,
is a valuable skill and decreases the mental bridge between problem and 
solution.) I was so adept at calculus that I completed a university level 
multivariable calculus course, with coursework, midterms, and a final, in less
than a week. 

More important though than being adept at mental symbolic manipulation was the 
insight into creatively solving problems that I had. There is one particular 
remarkable instance of this that comes to mind, that amazes me to this day, 
which I'll try to describe from memory. 

*Omitted explanation.*

I've digressed greatly. But my point was that at that time of my life, I guided 
myself down paths that I thought were extremely interesting and insightful, at 
least compared to my approaches to things today. While **the end result was never 
very interesting**, the path, and the decisions made, were. While I did take 
advantage of Google, papers, and books, I spent a lot of time exploring and 
attempting to solve problems on my own. 

I was approaching my 20s and I had to get a job. Living at home off of my 
parents was not sustainable, and wasn't conducive to a better future. 

I began doing non-consulting, full-time work several years ago. During the span
of those years, I have made moves between the plains, the mountains, and the 
coast. I have learned a good deal (though I don't claim expertise) about 
different facets of the tech industry from different perspectives. But I also 
took a great hit. *I got stupid.*

Working at any of the companies I've been at has never really been an 
intellectual pursuit, even though such a pursuit was the main driving force in 
my betterment up until I found work. It has been an exercise in solving a 
problem using given tools (and often, no more), and *doing it quickly*. What 
does that mean? It means I can't spend 12 hours doing the equivalent of 
bumbling around finding interesting or ingenious solutions to things, it means I 
lookup on Google and StackOverflow what the correct way to read in a file 
line-by-line, copy-paste the code, and modify it. I could definitely write my 
own, but *why bother swapping in that memory when the L2 cache -- that is the 
internet -- has it already?* Unfortunately, this toxic habit leaked, and I find 
doing the same thing for other problems I have, including math problems. I have 
developed the hazardous mindset common in programming, "if it has already been 
done, why should I do it?" *It is a dangerous inverse of Not Invented Here, or 
NIH syndrome*. 

With all of the moving around, I could never create the same homely environment
as I had previously. While I lived in Colorado, I managed to get a very large 
schoolhouse chalkboard in my cramped bedroom. It was literally a foot or two 
away from my bed. I had a very small desk to fit a monitor. I had no printers 
hooked up. My books were in tall disorderly towers, not on a shelf. 

Here in Silicon Valley, it's even worse. I have an aesthetically nicer place, 
but now I dont even have a desk or desktop machine. I type from a small laptop 
on my couch, being held up by a pillow. I have no room for a chalkboard or 
whiteboad, unless I wanted to cover up half of my mirrored closet. 

But the environment matters a lot less than the fact that when I get home from 
work -- which is a two hour commute each way (sorry, I can't afford to live in 
downtown San Francisco) -- I just feel like being mentally incapacitated. 
Occasionally I have a little spark of brilliance (*relatively, not absolute*)
that motivates me to write a short bit of code, but the code is never more than 
one or two hundred lines. It usually consists of some little trick. 

How has this affected me? I've mentally atrophied. I now feel like I can't talk 
about *any* subject with more than a centimeter of depth. A half a decade ago, 
I could dive with you to the penetralia of convergence theorems of 
hypergeometric series, but now I cannot. Even my programming has taken a toll 
*even though I do it every day*. I find myself abstaining from studying 
advanced topics in programming and computer science, and instead sticking to 
this comfort zone of what I know. I contemplate blaming this last issue on the 
fact that Silicon Valley is quietly cutthroat; you need to be the best at what 
you do in order to land jobs at e.g. Google. If I stay in my comfort zone, I am 
able to keep small unimportant details of a particular language, tool, or 
implementation in L1 brain cache, which proves useful during interviews. 

I find both my attention span when I read books and my ability to comprehend
them has at least decimated... In order to repair myself, one of perhaps two 
things needs to happen: I need to rething my lifestyle and re-evaluate the 
boundaries of what I can and cannot do (e.g. can I force a more balanced 
work-life proportion without getting fired?), or I need to change my domain of 
work (e.g. get a degree and go into academia or a research lab). *Traditional
Silicon Valley software engineering certainly isn't a fulfilling, or healthy, 
way of life for me right now*, but neither of those options appears to be very 
easy. 

I wasn't prepared to work. My mind wasn't. Had I known the burden that an 
average (or about average) job would put forth, I might have re-evaluated my 
decision to rush off to stuff my bank account. 