export const metadata = {
  title: "Is Success the Enemy of Freedom?",
  author: "Xiaoyu He",
  dateAccessed: "11-23-2020",
  url:
    "https://radimentary.wordpress.com/2020/10/26/is-success-the-enemy-of-freedom-full/",
};

## II. Motivation

What is personal success for? I

We say success opens doors. Broadens horizons. Pushes the envelope. Shatters
glass ceilings.

Success sets you free.

But what if it doesn't?

Take a good hard look at the successful people around you. Doctors too busy to
see their children on weekdays. Mathematicians too brilliant in one field to
switch to another. Businessmen too wealthy to avoid nightly wining and dining.
Professional gamers too specialized to learn a new hero. Public figures too
popular to change their minds.

Remember that time Michael Jordan took a break from basketball and played
professional baseball? They said he would have made an excellent professional
player given time. Jordan said baseball was his childhood dream. Even so, in
just over a year Jordan was back in basketball. It is hard not to imagine what
a baseball player Michael Jordan could have been, _had he been less successful
going in_.

I think it was in college that I first noticed something wasn't right about this
picture. I spent my first semester studying and playing Go for about eight hours
a day. I remember setting out a goban on the carpet of my dorm room and studying
patterns in the morning as my roommate left for classes; when he returned to the
room in the evening, he was surprised to see me still sitting there contemplating
the flow of the stones. Because this was not the first or tenth time this had
happened, he commented something like, "You must be really smart to not need to
study."

I remember being dumbstruck by that statement. It suggested that my freedom to
play board games for eight hours a day was gated by my personal success, and
other Harvard students would be able to live like me if only they were smarter.
But you know who else can play board games for eight hours a day?
Basement-dwelling high school dropouts, who are &mdash; for all their unsung
virtues &mdash; definitely not smarter than Harvard students.

When I entered college, they told me a Harvard education would empower me to do
anything I want. The world would be my oyster. I took the message to heart in
those four years &mdash; I fell in love, played every PC game that money could
buy, studied programming languages and systems programming, and read more than
one Russian novel. When I talked to my peers, however, I was constantly
surprised at the overwhelming sameness of their ambitions. Four years later,
twenty out of thirty-odd graduating seniors at our House planned to work in
finance or consulting.

(Now, it could be that college really empowers these bright young scholars to
realize their childhood dreams of arbitraging the yen against the kroner. But
this is, as they say in the natural sciences, definitely not the null
hypothesis.)

All of this would have made a teenager hate the idea of success altogether. I
was not a teenager anymore, so I formulated a slightly more sophisticated
answer: _Regardless of how successful I become, I resolve to live like a
failure._

This is a post about all the forces, real and imagined, that can make success
the enemy of personal freedom. As long as these forces exist, and as long as
human heart yearns for liberty, few people will ever want wholeheartedly to
succeed. Were it not already reality, that is a state of affairs too
depressing to contemplate.

(Just to be clear, people are plenty motivated to succeed when basic needs are
at stake &mdash; to put food on the table, to get laid, to pay for the
mortgage. But after those needs get met, success just doesn't look all that
great and only certain sorts of delightful weirdos keep striving. The rest of
us mostly just lay back and enjoy the fruits of our labor.)
