export const metadata = {
  title: "Read This If You're Worried That You'll Never Find 'The One'",
  author: "Heidi Priebe",
  dateAccessed: "11-17-2020",
  url:
    "https://thoughtcatalog.com/heidi-priebe/2015/05/read-this-if-youre-worried-that-youll-never-find-the-one/",
};

Imagine something crazy for me, quickly.

What if you peered into a fortune ball right now – this very second, today –
and saw with indisputable clarity that you were never going to meet the love of
your life?

That’s a sad thing that I’m asking you to think of, I’m aware. You’ve been
hoping to meet “The One” for a while now – or at least someone half-decent who
you can deal with for the rest of your life. I know, I know. You’re not
fanciful like everyone else. You don’t believe in soul mates. But you were
expecting to meet someone you liked a fair amount. Someone to curl up next to
at the end of a long day, who would take care of you when you got sick and
listen to your stories every evening after work. We all hope that. We’re human.

But imagine for a second that you knew – with 100% certainty – that you were
never going to meet that person. What about your life would that knowledge
change?
Because here’s the thing about finding love – it affects us constantly. And we
all loathe admitting it. But love is on the forefront of our actions even when
it’s not on the forefront of our minds. It’s the reason you bought those new
jeans last week. It’s the reason you went to that barbeque that you didn’t want
to go to last weekend. It’s the reason you sometimes feel cripplingly insecure
and inadequate and scared about everything that’s coming next. Love’s what
inspires most of your greatest changes.

So if you knew, with indisputable certainty, that love was never going to be
yours, how would you live your life differently? What about your daily routine
would you alter? What about your long-term plans?

Your first inclination may be to say “Nothing.” After all, you’re a smart
person. You have plans that don’t involve someone else’s influence. We all do.
But ponder it a few moments more. Because here’s what we don’t want to admit
about love: it is a crutch that we use all the time. The idea that someday
somebody will love all our flaws is a subtle excuse not to work on them. The
principle of two halves making a whole restrains us from becoming our own
better half. We want someone to swoop in during our darkest hour and save us,
but what if we knew they never would? We’d have to start doing everything
differently.

If you knew that love would never be an option for you, what would be? How
would you structure the rest of your life? Would it have a heavier focus on
career, a stronger inclination toward success? Or would you use the time to
invest in yourself – go on a few more vacations, travel further outside your
comfort zone? If you knew that you would never again feel the rush of budding
romance, where would you turn to for your thrills? How would you get your
blood pumping?

And what about your other relationships – would they suddenly take on more
weight? Would you spend more time appreciating your family, if you knew that
they are the people who will have loved you the most strongly at the end of
your life? What about your friendships? Would you nurture and care more for the
people who love you platonically if you knew that nobody would ever love you
romantically? Would you show up a little more often, share a little more of
your life?

My inclination is to believe that never finding love would be a game-changer
for most of us. One we’d initially consider to be devastating but may
eventually realize is the ultimate liberation. Without the fear of ending up
alone, the opportunities open to you would become endless. You could live on
every continent. You could scale the corporate ladder. You could go back to
school and get that degree you’ve always felt interested in, without worrying
about the financial burden your debt may place on somebody else. Love holds us
back in an infinite amount of subtle ways that perhaps we do not even realize.
And the guarantee of its absence may just be the ultimate sense of liberation.

Because if we didn’t have to search for the love of our lives, we would finally
be free to realize that we are allowed to be the loves of our own. That we can
spend our lives developing ourselves, challenging ourselves, pampering
ourselves and building ourselves up to be bigger, more capable people than we
ever once hoped to become. We could become everything we’ve been searching for.
We could construct our soul mates in ourselves.

If there’s one thing we all need to stop doing, it’s waiting around for
someone else to show up and change our lives. Just be the person you’ve been
waiting for. Live your life as if you are the love of it. Because that’s the
only thing you know for sure – that through every triumph, every failure, every
fear and every gain that you will ever experience until the day you die, you
are going to be present. You are going to be the person who shows up to accept
your rewards. You are going to be the person who holds your own hand when
you’re broken. You are going to be the person who gets yourself up off the
floor every time you get knocked down and if those things are not
love-of-your-life qualities, I don’t know what are.

We have to start appreciating all that we bring to our own lives. Because the
ironic truth is, you are most attractive when you’re not worried about who
you’re attracting. When you’re living your life confidently, freely and without
restraint, you emit the kind of energy that it just isn’t possible to fake.
The kind of energy that’s capable of transforming not just your own life, but
the lives of people around you.

So stop looking for The One to spend the rest of your life with. Be The One.

And let everybody else come searching for you.
